[Transcript missing]
So Apple approaches accessibility
in sort of a cross-functional way.
And this is sort of our mantra,
our world view of accessibility.
We consider, you know,
we don't break the world into
users without disabilities
and users with disabilities.
It's a continuum of users.
And we want to support
users with all abilities.
And so it's important that you
understand the way we approach
this is we want to make sure that
we can deliver an operating system
that has a great experience.
And this is sort of, you know,
our world view.
And this is definitely how
the cross-functional team,
which involves people from the
relationship side at Apple,
involves technology evangelists like me,
it obviously involves several different
groups in engineering who work on
accessibility as a problem on Mac OS X.
And the key thing is that we
believe accessibility is important.
And if you look at the statistics,
these are U.S.
government figures where technically
54 million people in the U.S.
have some form of disability.
That's a huge number.
Now obviously there's a large continuum
of disabilities and not all of them
require assistive technology to overcome.
But I think the key thing is that
if you look at statistically,
there's a large number of users
out there that can benefit from
having your application work with
another party's assistive technology
that works in conjunction with our
infrastructure and the operating system.
Interestingly,
since the ascendancy of Section 508
and the issue of accessibility,
you have accessibility becoming a
sales requirement in the education,
the federal, and local government spaces.
We'll get into what Section 508 is,
I think, on the next slide.
But the key thing is
if your product sells,
your application sells
into certain markets,
you're going to get asked
about accessibility.
What is your Section 508 compliance
is going to be the question
you're going to get asked.
And it's something you want to be
able to answer correctly because
if you don't have an accessibility
story for your application,
you might not be able
to access those markets.
And then lastly,
it's really the right thing to do
because I think that it's difficult
for people who have not worked
with the disabled community or the
assistive technology developers,
may not have a full understanding as
how simple changes in your application
can have significant effects in terms
of opening the usage of that application
to a person with a disability.
It's very interesting.
One of my first contacts with assistive
technology was I was at a conference
and I was waiting to go up an elevator
and I heard from behind me the
Macintosh Pro voice asked me to push
the second floor button on the elevator.
And it turned out to be a person who
used an iBook that had been converted
to do work with them as a piece of
assistive technology that essentially
acted as that person's voice.
Now I use speech.
I often have the text-to-speech
capability in Mac OS X,
read me emails.
But I didn't really fundamentally
understand that this technology,
it was a bonus technology for me,
was a pivotal technology to a
person with a disability and
enabled them to communicate.
And so you really have to think,
little things you can do inside your
application can have significant
reciprocal benefits to the disabled
community and it's very much worth
your time to engage that community,
to engage assistive technology
developers to learn about this.
Because the real thing is,
it's a very important
part of the process.
So really change your mind on
how you approach accessibility.
Instead of just being some
checkbox on some sales form,
just something that's really
the right thing to do.
Quick note about Section 508.
In many ways,
Section 508 has been driving this.
Section 508 is a federal requirement,
and essentially it's a specification
that the government's published that
sits down a minimum accessibility
standard for a variety of new devices.
Now, new devices are things
like operating systems,
applications,
electronic devices such as computers.
And it's essentially sort of the
same body of legislation and law
that mandates curb cuts and various
handrails and things like that.
And it just took a little while for
those standards to be applied to
items such as personal computers.
Section 508 obviously was
reauthorized or basically it said,
hey, it's coming down the pipe in 1998.
The various communities that are
affected by this got together
and started -- Section 509 was
re-reported to the state of California.
And it's a standard that's been applied
to all of the state's standards.
You know,
organizations working on defining
what those requirements were.
And in June 21st of 2001,
these standards actually became formal.
So there's actually a document that
you can go get that tells you exactly
what things your application or your
operating system or your electronic
device has to do to be accessible.
Now, one unfortunate situation that
arrives with a hard document,
particularly a federal document,
you know, outlining accessibility is in
many ways it's not complete.
In many cases,
people consider that it is complete.
Okay?
And this can create some issues.
It is a great starting place.
Section 508 is a good starting place to
learn about accessibility to figure out
how to make your product accessible.
But it does not define everything
that you could potentially need
to do to open your products
up to users with disabilities.
[Transcript missing]
So let's talk about our
approach to accessibility.
Because again, it's new.
When Justin--when you
introduced Mac OS X,
a lot of people were concerned because
they really didn't see much about
support for assistive technology
and accessibility built into the OS.
But in Jaguar last year,
we actually announced a whole bunch of
additions to the OS to really support,
you know,
making applications accessible and
support our users with disabilities.
We actually,
when looking at this problem,
because it is a big problem,
we actually factored it out in two parts.
One is something we call
user level accessibility.
This is our built-in functionality,
those universal access features
I'll talk about in a moment.
And this is when we looked at the things
that we have to do to enable users with
disabilities to engage our platform,
there was a subset of them that
it made sense for Apple to do.
And so we actually have built those and
baked those into the operating system,
and I'll show you those in a moment.
And then on the second hand,
we realized there's a whole lot of
adaptation that needs to be done
to engage the whole community.
And we're not expertise in
every form of adaptation.
So we wanted to actually build
infrastructure in the OS to
enable the assistive technology
community to engage the platform.
And so that's what the developer
level accessibility is.
And that's really characterized
in our Mac OS X Accessibility API.
Apple,
what's the difference between the two?
So Universal Access.
Some of you may have
already seen this icon.
It's in the pref panel in Mac OS X.
And this is really the hub, if you will,
for our assistive technology
features that are built in.
The user level accessibility
that I spoke about.
So I'm going to actually
come over here to,
I think it's Demo Machine 3,
and give you a real quick tour of the
Universal Access pref panel and show
you what we have built into Mac OS X.
Some of this you may
already have seen in Jaguar,
but we've actually made
some enhancements to it,
very much in the case of user feedback,
what people wanted to see.
So I come here and I see right here
I have my universal access press panel.
I click on it and it's going to
bring up essentially the hub of our
user level accessibility features.
We sort of break it down into
categories of disabilities.
So for example we have seeing, hearing,
keyboard and mouse.
And if we take a look at the
first option which is seeing,
this is actually where,
I'm a graphics guy at heart so this is
where I think the coolest feature is.
We actually have full support for screen
enlargement inside the operating system.
And this enlargement is done in a very
technically advanced way because of
the way our windowing system works.
And the fact that we use technology such
as OpenGL to accelerate our display.
So we're actually able to do some
pretty fantastic things here.
For example,
I can zoom in and I have full speed zoom.
It's very high quality and I can
zoom in and out very fluidly.
And the other interesting point is
that one of the problems with enlargers
that people have been familiar with
in the past is in many cases these only
worked with Windows and text documents.
So if there's other rich media that
happened to be being used at the time,
they really couldn't participate because
of the bottlenecking and slowdown
that having to do all this copy,
pixel copying and replication would be.
And so we wanted to make sure that
we could architect a system that
really didn't suffer from that.
So we actually
created the system to where
it's able to do things like,
for example, enlarge even multimedia.
So it's a quick time pop-up.
Tell it to loop.
and I'm able to freely zoom
up and experience multimedia
without having to have any
conflict with the screen enlarger.
And I can actually enlarge to
extremely large proportions.
and I now have a 35 foot
tall pointer over there.
So it's a really powerful feature.
Now one thing that we also got as
feedback was that people wanted more
control over the zoom so we've actually
made it pretty flexible in here.
We're able to set your zoom,
how far you want it to zoom in, zoom out,
if you want it to show you
where it's going to zoom into,
a lot of options like that.
We also have the ability to turn
on and off the smoothing so that
if I am enlarged that I can turn on
and off the anti-aliasing because
Mac OS X is fully anti-aliased and
in some ways if you have issues with
contrast the anti-aliasing can make
the type sometimes difficult to read.
This was sort of a first solution to
be able to address that problem but in
Panther we've actually gone one further.
If I actually zoom out a bit
we'll see we have a new option.
And that is going to be
the enhanced contrast.
And this is a really cool
feature because we had a lot of
feedback that the anti-aliasing,
the soft edges gave people
with low vision problems and
second is the pin striping.
The pin striping can be very difficult if
you have issues with perceiving contrast.
So we actually sat down with one
of our crack graphics engineers who
thought about it and came up with
some very funky math to actually
be able to do this effect where,
and let me actually go one farther in.
You can see the pin stripe and I'm
actually able to take it and move my
screen and just change the slider here
and it's going to be able to make the
pin stripe and drop out and it's going
to increase the contrast of the windows.
Additionally it's going to
harden up the edges of the type.
So even though we have
anti-aliasing the type can go,
we can harden up the edges of the type
so if we look at it the type itself
is going to become bolder and bolder.
And this is again a request that was
put in specifically for features.
Right.
by our users.
and its system-wide effect.
So, and it's also variable,
so you can dynamically tune it.
We also have full support for
flashing alerts for people
who have hearing disabilities.
We have sticky keys and slow keys,
which are also alternate input devices,
if you will,
for people with dexterity issues who may
not be able to manipulate the keyboard.
We also have full support for
flashing alerts for people
who have hearing disabilities.
We have sticky keys and slow keys,
which are also alternate input devices,
if you will,
for people with dexterity issues who may
not be able to manipulate the keyboard.
We also have full support for
flashing alerts for people with
dexterity issues who may not be
able to manipulate the keyboard.
and the, up on the screen in a
semi-transparent way,
the keys that are currently,
the modifier keys that are
currently cached are going to
affect whenever our main keys hit.
You also have mouse keys to enable the
numeric keypad to out like a mouse.
We also have some other options.
So, for example,
if I cruise over to something
that's sort of interesting,
a lot of the features that we've built
in the Universal Access Press pane,
we found a lot of people
liked using them regardless if
they had a disability or not.
For example,
the screen enlarger turned out to be
very popular in last year's WWDC for
people to show code snippets.
We also have some features
that work the other way.
So, for example,
if I go into my keyboard and mouse,
I see a new option called
Keyboard Shortcuts.
And essentially,
this enables users to define hotkeys.
Now, anyone can use this,
but for a user with a disability
who might need to assign a hotkey,
one key press to do a lot
of different operations,
it's very, very powerful.
And then also,
we're going to have a demonstration
a little bit later of another
very important piece of assistive
technology that's built into Mac OS X.
Which is our speech,
which keeps on getting better and better.
So that was a quick tour of the
Universal Access PREF panel.
And let me go back to slides.
So let's start to drill
down on the developer side.
Because I talked about the user side,
the experience when a user gets
a machine and has the ability
to essentially engage it,
even if they have a disability.
But now let's sort of work our way down
into the infrastructure to talk about
what application developers need to
do and also talk about what assistive
technology developers need to do.
We're going to have to do a little bit
of storytelling here because we had to
really take a look at accessibility,
how it's handled in other
platforms and also in Mac OS 9.
And we built our infrastructure for
doing accessibility in Mac OS X.
And one of the key things that
sort of created this scenario
is we built an entirely new OS.
Mac OS X is entirely from the
ground up new operating system.
And that actually had
sort of two challenges.
One is we had a lot of
infrastructure to build.
Second is for our developer community.
It was a little bit of a curveball,
particularly for the assistive
technology community,
because their landmarks in terms
of how they affected accessibility
on the platform totally changed.
So one of the key things is that I think
the biggest thing that really affected
them was the protected memory model.
Now, obviously,
everyone was overjoyed to get
protected memory on Mac OS X,
but it was horrifying if you were
an assistive technology developer.
Because that meant that your app,
assistive technology application,
could not tell what another
application was doing.
Because there was a hard wall.
There was protected
memory in between them.
And then also some core changes
in the way we handle I/O.
Mac OS X has a very abstract and modular
and object-oriented I/O architecture.
And another thing that's actually
an interesting challenge is that our
visual environment is really complex.
The ability to seamlessly composite 2D,
3D, multimedia,
to do the dynamic enlargement.
It's a very different world up in
the frame buffer than it was on
other platforms and in the past.
But in many cases,
some of these challenges
actually turn into reality.
And some of these challenges
actually turn out to be benefits.
And we'll talk about those
a bit later as we go on.
But the key thing was we took
this opportunity by the fact that
we built a new operating system.
And we had to come with innovative
solutions for the assistive technology
community and developers who need to
make their applications accessible.
We decided to say, "Hey, we're in here.
We're building infrastructure.
We might as well formally include that
infrastructure." And make it to where
developers can rely on key parts of the
system to do things on their behalf.
So the first thing we wanted to look
at is how it was done the wrong way.
So we actually looked at the
way it was done on Mac OS 9.
And it wasn't done the wrong
way because anyone was making a
choice to do it the wrong way.
It was really because it was the way that
accessibility and assistive technology
organically grew up on that platform.
Because Mac OS 9 architecturally was a
short stack of hardware with an irregular
layer of system software and then the
application sat on top of that and it
was all running in one memory partition.
So it was pretty easy for the assistive
technology vendor to basically put
themselves up on top and if they
needed to change the behavior of
running application or adapt the
functionality of the operating system,
they could just sort of have at it
and go around and change things.
So in many cases,
assistive technology would
essentially eject patches between the
application and the system software.
Obviously,
assistive technology developers
weren't the only people who do it.
We had all these issues with
extensions on Mac OS 9 and that
also was used the same techniques.
But in many cases,
assistive technology vendors
had to be more aggressive.
In some cases,
they'd even change the way they
were operating the application.
They'd insert their code into a target
application to modify the behavior.
Or they would do things like get
in between the hardware and start
pulling events directly before the
system software could get them.
And in many cases,
they would actually do trickery
with the way the hardware
presented itself to the Macintosh.
So you actually had a scenario
where assistive technology devices
and assistive solutions were in
a "do it yourself" environment.
And we really realized that this
was the wrong way to do things.
We did not want to replicate
this behavior on Mac OS X.
So that meant that Apple had to get
involved and create this infrastructure.
And so we realized in
our new operating system,
we have a common layer that's called
the application frameworks layer.
And between all these different
ways to develop for Mac OS X,
each application framework,
there's actually common infrastructure
that runs between a lot of them.
So we said, "Hmm,
this is a nice choke point, if you will,
to start building accessibility into
the operating system to support the
Mac OS 10." assistive technology
and application developers.
We had to sort of factor
the problem because each,
one interesting thing
about Mac OS X is it's got,
you know,
four discrete ways to develop for it.
If I'm a Unix developer,
I can use Darwin and BSD.
If I'm a Java developer,
I have full Java implementation.
If I'm a developer who has core
competency on the Macintosh from,
you know, Mac OS 8, 9, whatever,
I have those APIs that have been,
you know,
a significant body of those APIs in
Carbon that have been brought forward
and they're available on the platform.
And I also have Cocoa,
which is a fantastic way to do
object-oriented development.
All these frameworks are very
different from one another.
And making them all
accessible is very tricky.
So we actually originally started
with just Carbon and Cocoa.
So last year,
we were focused on just making
Carbon and Cocoa applications
accessible on the platform.
But for Panther,
we've actually extended that
out to include Java as well.
So we're able to leverage the common
infrastructure to essentially have
all the applications sitting on top
of the application framework layer.
They're using this core infrastructure.
And so the idea here is to take
the assistive technology solution,
which before had to do some very
interesting things with the system,
and sort of make it just another
application to where it was an
application that just ran using the
same infrastructure and was able to
use that to do what it needed to do,
to have access into other applications.
So we had to formalize some
pathways for this access to occur.
So that's what the
Mac OS X Accessibility API is.
It's API-level support for accessibility.
It's accessible.
It's standard C interface,
so it's accessible from Carbon and Cocoa.
It allows applications to
discover and control the
UI of other running processes.
Because when you look at it,
when you look at the whole
field of accessibility,
that's one of the most common
threads that a piece of assistive
technology needs to be able to adapt
the functionality of an application.
So we have a lot of applications that
are not even aware it's being adapted.
So we give pretty low-level control
for one application to peer across a
protected memory and look into another
application and determine the UI state
and to be able to affect that state.
It supports some existing APIs that
we've actually had in the system for
a while that were more general-purpose
APIs for synthesizing events,
keyboard-mouse events.
And so it can also be used in
conjunction with those to create
some very powerful solutions.
But more importantly,
this API set has really become
a common groundwork for us.
So we're able to use this to create
some very powerful solutions.
So we have a lot of applications that
are not even aware it's being adapted.
So we give pretty low-level control
for one application to peer across a
protected memory and look into another
application and determine the UI state
and to be able to affect that state.
But more importantly,
this API set has really become
a common groundwork for us.
So we have a lot of applications that
are not even aware it's being adapted.
So we give pretty low-level
control for one application to
peer across a protected memory
and look into another application.
And more importantly,
this API set has really become a
common groundwork for Apple and the
assistive technology community to
work on accessibility on the platform.
In fact,
a lot of the feedback we've gotten
over the past year in terms of things
you'd like to see in the way we
handle text and text representation
has been incorporated into Panther.
And then obviously we introduced
the core set of this in Mac OS 10.2,
and we've done some enhancements,
particularly in the area of
text handling in Panther.
[Transcript missing]
So what is UI element?
Again, it's a framework-independent
abstraction for user interface.
And we'll actually have a little
diagram of how a dialogue works,
but you can think of essentially an
application is appearing of a hierarchy
of these UI element abstractions.
Because a UI element can actually
have attributes in terms of the
title of a window or the value of
a particular control or slider,
for example.
And a UI element can also
have children attributes.
So, for example,
if you have a window and it
contains within it a child,
which might be a button.
And obviously certain controls
are going to accept actions,
user interface events.
And so you can actually have,
a UI element can have an action as well,
such as a press action
or an increment action.
There's a whole suite of those.
So let's actually sort of take a look,
because I think it's better
to sort of describe how this
really works in reality.
And show how the UI elements in the
Accessibility API work to overcome
the problem of one application,
a piece of assistive technology,
needing to know what's going on in the
user interface of another application.
So here we have a theoretical
piece of assistive technology,
and we have another
application that's just,
you know, my app that's running.
Obviously they're separated
by a protected memory model.
They're in different processes.
So we need to somehow
to start a dialogue.
To determine the user interface state.
So the first thing I do
is get the process ID.
And there's a couple
different APIs to do this.
But once I have the process ID,
that's going to,
I'm going to have to basically
ask for a UI element,
the initial UI element
for this process ID.
So I will call
ax_UI_element_create_application,
pass in the process ID,
and I'm going to get back a UI element
that's going to contain some information,
the top level information
on that application.
[Transcript missing]
So what I'd like to do is
invite Mike Engber to the stage.
And he's going to take us in--that
is his actual job title right there.
And he's going to actually show
us the UI Element Inspector.
The UI Element Inspector is
actually sample code that you guys
can pull down and take a look at.
And it's basically a way that
you can use the accessibility
APIs and show them in action.
Okay, hello.
My name is Mike Engber and I'm
going to start off with a demo of
UI Element Inspector that's going to
sort of give a live illustration of
what Travis has been talking about.
And then I have a few slides, only six,
so don't worry.
And I'm going to cover some
of the things we've added for
Panther in the accessibility APIs.
And then finally,
I'm going to end with another
demo of a fun little app.
So UI Element Inspector is
available as sample code from DTS.
It has been for a while,
so some of you may already
be familiar with it.
And I'm going to start by launching it.
And what this program does is
every time the mouse moves,
it checks what UI element
the cursor is over.
So as I move over different things,
you can see that the contents
of this window change.
I'm going to increase the font size
so people can read it a little better.
and now I'm going to launch TextEdit.
We're going to do some demonstrations
of what it can do with TextEdit.
So here I'm over an untitled window in
TextEdit and we can see that we get the,
The list of attributes
that the window supports,
things like the role,
the role description, the title.
At the top of the window is showing the
position of the window in the hierarchy.
So you can see at the top of the
hierarchy is the application itself.
And then this window
is one of its children.
One of the sort of challenging
things with the UI of this program
is since whenever I move the mouse,
it changes what I'm looking at.
If I want to operate on that thing,
that's a problem.
So use a hot key and you can lock
in on the particular UI element that
you're looking at and everything
turns to red to indicate that.
And then this little
interaction window appears.
And I can't increase the font size in it,
so I have to apologize,
but I'll describe in
detail what I'm doing.
So we can see we are now locked into the
window and one of the things you can do
is use this pop-up menu and get a list
of all the attributes in the window,
which we've already seen above,
and we can see some of
them have W's next to them.
That means they're writable.
So I'm going to pick
the position attribute.
We can see its position is given
in XY coordinates and I can...
Change the Y coordinate and hit
set value and the window moves.
and other experts have also been
involved in the development of the app.
and it's a Boolean.
It's now at zero and
I can change it to one,
set it and the window disappears
and then I'll bring it back
by setting it back to zero.
and this illustrates a point that
sometimes people new to the APIs forget,
is that actions aren't the only
way to interact with UI elements.
A large amount of your interaction is
going to be accomplished through setting
the values of writable attributes.
Okay, so now I'm going to bring up
TextEdit's Preferences pane.
And I'm going to illustrate a couple
more features of UI Element Inspector.
I'm going to focus in on this
text that labels this box.
and there's this little check
box in the interaction window
that lets you highlight the
thing that you're locked onto.
And so this is useful for going around
the app and just seeing what you can hit.
So I'll demonstrate here
we've hit another button.
Here we can hit a pop up and
I'll go back to that label.
And then also in the interaction
window is a pop-up named Go To.
And you can actually walk the hierarchy.
So you can use your mouse to get
close to where you want to be.
And then we can go up to the parent.
We see the highlight changes
to reflect that that title is
actually a child of that box.
And then we can go up another level
and the box is a child of the window.
and I'm going to show one more thing.
So you might be asking the question,
can UI Element Inspector inspect itself?
And the answer is yes, it can.
And I'll end the demo by
having it close itself.
So we can, here I'll perform an action,
which is AXPress on the
close button of the window.
And we're done.
All right.
So, as we just showed,
we have this model of attributes and
values and you can ask a UI element,
you can pass it a name of an attribute,
you can get back the value and this
really suffices for most purposes and
this is--and this is really all we had
in Jaguar.
But we found that sometimes
just passing the name of an
attribute isn't quite enough.
So, in Panther, we added this concept of
parameterized attributes.
And for instance,
you might want to know what
character the mouse is over.
And in that case, you need to pass in the
position of the mouse.
Or you might want to know the
bounding rectangle for some text.
And in that case, you need to pass in the
range of characters of the
text you're interested in.
So, we added this concept of
parameterized attributes.
It's conceptually,
it's similar to attributes.
But now, when you ask for the value,
you pass in a name and you
also pass in a parameter.
And the type of the parameter varies.
And I'll go over some examples
of that in an upcoming slide.
So to accomplish this,
we added two new APIs in Panther.
The first one is
ax-ui-element-copy-parameterized-attrib
ute-names.
And you can see we kept brevity
in mind when naming these APIs.
And the second one is
ax-ui-element-copy-parameterized-attrib
ute-values.
So the first one is very similar
to an existing API that returns
you a list of all the attributes.
This one returns you a separate list
of the parameterized attributes.
And it's a separate list
for compatibility reasons.
We didn't want existing code
bumping in to parameterized
attributes and trying to get their
value and not passing a parameter.
So since they're separate lists,
that can't happen.
and the second call is
what you're going to use.
Once you've got the name of
the parameterized attribute
you're going to use,
you get to pass in the UI element,
the attribute, the appropriate parameter,
and then you get back your value.
and for now, we only support reading,
not writing of the
parameterized attribute values.
But if a need arises,
we might consider extending
that in the future.
So no presentation would be complete
without a giant table of very small text.
So I apologize if you're
having trouble reading it,
but I'll go over some
of the items in detail.
This is a list of the parameterized
attributes that we have
currently implemented in Panther.
And they all have to do with text.
So there were a lot of requests
from developers to find out more
detailed information about text,
what style it's in,
how it's formatted on the screen.
And this is where we found
we really needed a parameter
along with an attribute name in
order to answer these requests.
So the first one is KIX line for index
parameterized attribute so this one is
addressing the issue of the text layout
If you pass the index into a text string,
then we're going to tell
you what line it's on.
And then the second attribute
up there does the opposite.
If you give me a line number,
I'm going to tell you the range
of text that's on that line.
Then there's a...
String for Range, which will,
given a range of text,
allow you to just get that much of it.
Before, you could ask for a text
object's text in its entirety.
This lets you get it a chunk at a time.
Then there's one that'll tell you
if you specify a character position,
what range of text you're over,
and you have to keep in mind that,
you know, the mouse might appear to
be over a single character,
but in fact, because of surrogate pairs
or multi-byte glyphs,
you might be over several characters.
So we return the whole range.
Then there's range for index,
and this again has to do
with multi-byte characters.
If you specify an index in the text,
we'll give you the full range of
characters that comprise that glyph.
So there's calls similar to this,
like range of composed
characters in the kit,
and this is sort of the
accessibility equivalent to that.
Then we have some that
have to do with layout.
Given a, there's the KX range for,
KX bounds for range
parameterized attributes.
So you give a range of text
and we're going to give you
back a bounding rectangle.
And then there's the,
K-A-X R-T-F for range
parameterized attribute.
So again,
you can give us a range of text and
we're going to hand you back the
R-T-F representation of the text.
And from there, you can extract the font,
the size, the color,
just about everything
you could want to know.
And then finally,
there's this K-A-X style range
for index parameterized attribute.
I'm sure you guys are going to enjoy
typing these names in just as much
as I am speaking them right now.
And this last one lets you go
through your text in style runs.
So if you're interested
in when things change,
you can use this and find out, you know,
the extent of this current style run
and then move on to the next one.
There's a couple of other attributes we
added for text accessibility in Panther,
and these aren't
parameterized attributes.
The first one is just to tell you how
many characters are in a text object.
And the second one is to
tell you what range of those
characters are currently visible.
And the next two are a
little more esoteric.
These have to do with text that flows.
If you have, for instance,
a two column document,
that might be two separate
text UI elements and the
text flows between them.
So the first one,
the shared text UI element attribute,
tells you what's your portion of
the text that you're displaying.
Because in general,
most of the attributes,
if you ask for the text,
they just treat this,
treat you as if you have all the text
because that's most of the time what
you want and that's most convenient.
But if you really need to get to find out
what exactly only this UI element has,
you can use this
attribute to find it out.
And then the last attribute,
AX shared character range attribute.
Actually, I got these backwards.
The second one is the one
that will tell you your share.
The first one is going to return
you an array of other UI elements
where your text is shared with.
So, you know,
it would return you the other column if
your text was split between two columns.
Now here's a few other untext related
attributes we've added for Panther.
First, we had a lot of requests for
people wanting to be able to
identify the default button.
So we have a parameter on Windows that
will tell you the default button
and we also have one that will
identify the cancel button.
We also added a couple of notifications.
So when drawers appear or
when sheets slide down,
you can get a notification.
When they're destroyed,
you get the normal UI element
destroyed notification.
So we didn't have to add anything there.
We also added some new
sub-roles for windows.
Again, this was a,
we had a lot of requests from
developers wanting to be able to
distinguish a floating window,
possibly ignore it, from a dialogue,
from a regular window.
And so, we added a variety of sub-roles
that will identify dialogues,
floating windows,
and then there's an all-purpose unknown
if someone puts up a custom window,
we can't tell what it is.
And so I'm going to finish up with a
demo of a little app we call Monkey See,
Monkey Do.
So I'm going to start
by launching TextEdit.
And this is a typical document you
might work with on any day with a
variety of tastefully formatted text.
and the rest of the team.
So, I'm going to show you how to extract
rich textual information from text and
different styles and different colors.
And next I'm going to launch--I'm
going to first move this out
of the way and then I'm going
to launch MonkeySeeMonkeyDo.
And this app,
it's named MonkeySeeMonkeyDo because
basically that's what it does.
It uses only the accessibility
APIs and it tries to replicate
the user interface of another app.
So, I'm going to--from the
list it presents me,
I'm going to pick TextEdit.
and it's computing its own, you know,
it's creating its own window that's
supposed to look as close as it can get
to the original app.
And again,
all it's using is the accessibility
APIs to get the information it needed.
And it's actually completed a while ago.
I'll just have to move it off.
So, again,
this illustrates that all the rich
text information is available to
you through the Accessibility APIs.
So I'm going to demonstrate some
other features of MonkeySeeMonkeyDo.
First I'll go to TextEdit.
I'm going to close this window.
And you'll notice
MonkeySeeMonkeyDo removed its copy.
That was an example of getting a
notification of a UI element destroyed.
And now I'm going to
bring up preferences.
Now this is actually a little tricky
because when Textetics deactivated,
its preferences panel disappears.
So that adds a little
bit of a wrinkle to this.
But MonkeySeeMonkeyDo has
already done its best to
replicate the preferences panel.
And you might have noticed the
change if you were paying attention.
This one doesn't quite look right.
And that's because there's no
way through the Accessibility
APIs to discover whether you're
using regular size controls,
tiny controls, or small controls.
So you could take a guess
based on the size and here
it's not guessing quite right.
So I'm going to pull
aside MonkeySeeMonkeyDo's
version of the preferences.
And again, TextSet,
it's not in the foreground so that's
why you don't see the other window.
But as soon as I bring it back,
you'll see it.
and using notifications,
there's some more
connections we can show.
For instance, we can pick something
from the pop-up menu.
Of course,
I picked one that was concealed.
You can barely see it
below the upper window.
I'll go back to automatic
and you can see it changed.
Next, I'll click a radio button and you
can see it changes between the two.
can illustrate some typing.
We can change the window width to 100.
And when I hit Enter,
it'll propagate down.
So again,
this application is just sort of
an illustration of what's possible
to do with the Accessibility APIs.
Okay, back to Travis.
All right, thank you.
Cool.
So let's go back to slides.
So now what I want to talk about is
if you're an application developer,
I'm going to touch briefly on how
do I engage the accessibility APIs,
all the sort of infrastructure that
we've been talking about in the
first half of the presentation.
And we'll go through it really quickly
because we did quite a bit of this last
year in terms of going into great detail.
So there should be sessions on ADC TV and
the DVD ROM on Carbon accessibility.
There's also one on Cocoa Controls and
also the accessibility overview session.
I'll have a lot of this
content in greater detail.
But the key thing is obviously there's
multiple types of applications that work
on different frameworks on Mac OS X.
And the accessibility API can
work with Carbon applications,
but there are some caveats.
Essentially,
we've been telling developers of
Carbon applications to use standard
controls for a long time for other
reasons besides accessibility.
If you were one of those
developers that took our advice,
you're going to be in pretty good
shape because we're able to make
a lot of the standard controls
accessible in Jaguar and Panther.
However, there's a long story.
We've had a sort of past
of Carbon developers
doing their own controls.
If you do this in your application,
you will have to actually do some
work to support the accessibility
APIs in your application.
The other thing is important is your app
should support Carbon events as well.
And that also is one of the
ways accessibility API works.
The other thing that is sort of an area
of difficulty and it's something that
we don't have total control over as
much as we'd like to is that in Carbon,
there's also a history of people doing
their own text engines or you name it,
licensed text engines.
They roll their own.
There's several different ones
available in the OS and LTE.
There's text edit.
And it's too big of a problem
for us to solve on our own.
So Carbon developers want to use the
parameterized attributes are going to
have to add some support into their
text engine for supporting these APIs.
It's something we'd
love to fix if we could,
but it's too big a problem.
It's too big a problem
for just Apple to tackle.
We're going to have more
information published on
this topic on Tech Note 2092.
And that is going to be forthcoming
and it will have lots of detail on
what Carbon developers need to do to
properly support the accessibility API.
Good news in the other frameworks.
Cocoa, it's a great story there.
The Cocoa team actually modified
AppKit to support the Accessibility
API last year and they continued,
obviously, to increase that support.
And because of the way Cocoa works,
essentially you're always inheriting
from parent classes applications that
may not have been aware of accessibility.
And say, for example, Mac OS 10.1,
when those applications are
run on X.2 or in Panther,
those applications will be accessible.
There's still the possibility
for Cocoa to be accessible.
There are ways to make those
custom controls accessible.
Java applications,
an interesting story here,
is you don't need a Java accessibility
bridge like you do on other platforms.
What a Java accessibility bridge
is bridges out the accessibility
from the platform native side where
the assistive technology has to
run over through to the sandbox.
We don't need that on Mac OS X.
And with Java and Panther,
you just basically,
we've done the work for you.
And AWT and Swing applications,
we don't need that.
applications that use standard
controls in those environments are
going to be accessible as well.
So let's talk briefly about bringing
your assistive technology to Mac OS X.
This is more for the assistive
technology developers who are
looking to engage our platform.
There's a lot of ways you can go
wrong because it's sort of like a
restaurant with a huge menu and we
want you to choose certain items.
We have like a chef special
to do the right technologies.
So I'm going to give you
some tips right here.
One of the things that we have been
dealing with the assistive technology
community for three years for
Apple and it's a continual point of
confusion as to where you should start.
How should you begin coding your
assistive technology application?
And it's sort of become clear to
us and looking at all the options
repeatedly with a lot of developers
that if you're in a situation where
you're trying to bring a new assistive
technology application up on Mac OS X,
you want to do it in Cocoa.
It's just going to be faster
and more efficient for you.
You get a lot of platform
benefits by using it.
And you also get a lot of
stability because the way the
architecture works where Cocoa can
actually innovate and change and
you'll inherit those advantages.
And the rapid application development
aspect of Cocoa because a lot of
assistive technology developers are small
shops and this is going to be tremendous
productivity gain for you guys.
So we really recommend
you take a look at Cocoa.
If you're making an
assistive technology device,
such as an alternate input device,
a head mouse, an eye tracker, a switch,
I think that one of the problems that
we see a lot in this community is you
guys use a lot of legacy I.O., serial,
PS2 mice.
The reality is Apple sort of
really helped catalyze USB when we
introduced the iMac a long time ago.
USB is ready.
So, you know, if you have a PS2 assistive
technology device,
you're going to want to really think,
how do I move it to modern serial
I.O.? In most of your cases,
it's going to be USB,
but there's also interesting
possibility with things like FireWire,
where an eye tracker,
instead of being this large
multi-thousand dollar box and specialized
custom image processor done in hardware,
could be a relatively
inexpensive FireWire camera with,
you know,
using the real-time capabilities and
the high-speed throughput of FireWire,
able to actually pump its data into...
software that's running on Mac OS X,
which is using maybe our platform
tuned DSP and math libraries to do the
actual calculations to track the eye.
So then you can take,
by using the proper I.O.
and clever software,
you can essentially factor your
problem from a very expensive hardware
implementation down to potentially very
inexpensive and affordable hardware.
The other interesting thing is
when doing any of the new serial
I.O., please follow the standards.
It doesn't do any good to do the I.O.
and then not follow the standards.
And this occasionally happens where
people deliver an excellent PS2.
It's not a very expensive
assistive technology,
but they'll make it work like a keyboard.
So when the user hits
the switch input device,
it just says letter A, letter A,
letter A.
And then it becomes a complicated
software problem to determine,
okay, where'd that letter A come from?
Did it come from the assistive
technology device versus did
it come from the keyboard?
And software,
layers of software have to be
put in a place to decode that.
Where if you follow, for example,
the USB HID spec,
which has all sorts of input devices,
you could say this is a button.
And that's much clearer than having a...
a switch emulate a piece of a keyboard.
There's also interesting for
wireless opportunities such
Bluetooth and also force feedback.
We support force feedback in Mac OS X.
And I think that could be an
interesting dimension to provide
feedback back to the user when
using an alternate input device.
And we have some speech technology
that's available in the operating system,
a really good speech technology.
We've been working on it
for a number of years,
and that's available for
assistive technology developers
to do text-to-speech.
It's also available to
do speech recognition.
And I'd like to invite
Kim Silverman up to the stage,
and we're going to quickly do
a configuration adjustment,
and this is sort of
an impromptu ad today,
and do a quick demonstration
of some of the excellent speech
capabilities built into Mac OS X.
Hi, Travis.
While Travis is setting up,
there are a whole lot of speech features
built into the operating system.
We don't have time to show you
even a small proportion of them.
We're just going to step through
particularly what's relevant
to the accessibility aspect.
API.
Thank you.
So there are speech synthesis and speech
recognition capabilities that use that.
Let's talk about the
speech synthesis first.
Excuse my back,
I'll be looking at the screen here.
I'm going to go to the system
preferences and the speech preferences,
where in the spoken user interface tab,
I can turn these things on.
The first thing I'll turn on is
selected text when the key is pressed.
It's going to ask me for hotkey.
I'll use F8,
and that means in any application,
if I have some text selected,
I can speak it just by pressing F8.
So we've got some...
News, which I just brought up
before the session today.
I'll press F8 and we ought to hear this.
Security talks between
Israeli and Palestinian leaders
are making good progress.
So there's selected text
when the key is pressed.
And this is one of the
disability features that,
like many,
become popular amongst people who
don't have disabilities as well.
It means if you're typing a document,
for example,
and you want to hear how it sounds,
you want to proof it,
you just select it and hit
your hotkey and it's read back.
That is useful for detecting spelling
mistakes because spell checkers can
only detect typos that don't make words.
If you ask any cognitive psychologist,
he'll point you to a lot of data showing
that most of the typos that we make
make other real words and therefore
spell checkers can't catch them.
Then we have this item here,
text under the mouse.
This again uses the Accessibility API.
And when I turn it on,
you'll hear it speak already
the name of that checkbox.
Text under the mouse.
And as I move this around,
it will speak other controls.
SpeedTrack Ignition.
I'm not doing anything to launch this.
It's happening spontaneously.
Default Voice.
Spoken User Interface.
OK, we'll turn that guy off,
otherwise you'll drive us crazy.
Now let's go over to speech recognition.
If ever you try out
the speech recognition,
the first thing you should do is give
it a chance to normalize to the way
your voice sounds in the acoustic
environment in which you're using it.
We have built in automatic tracking and
adapting to the acoustic environment,
but you can speed it up.
I'll show you how.
And I'm going to do it now because I'm
getting echoes from the back of the wall,
which are quite a long delay,
and it's got to learn about that.
So we built the speech recognition
to work with the microphone that's
built into most of our machines.
iMacs, iBooks, PowerBooks, Emacs.
Tower machines don't have
a built-in microphone.
You can get a number of third-party
USB head-mounted microphones.
I'm using this one, which was produced by
our buddies over at VXI.
Those guys really know
what they're doing.
There are other brands
you can use as well.
So you go to the speech
recognition preferences,
to the listening tab,
and click on volume.
Now, as I'm speaking,
I can adjust the volume so that my
speech peaks just go into the red,
and then my task is to
read down these commands.
It's listening to me now,
and as it hears me say one
of these and recognizes them,
it will flash.
What time is it?
Quit this application.
Open a document.
Show me what to say.
Make this page speakable.
Move page down.
Hide this application.
Switch to Finder.
So ostensibly, we just let you set the
volume on the microphone,
but what you don't know is we just
set nearly a thousand parameters
there concerning spectral
properties of this microphone and
me and this acoustic environment.
Now we're ready to use the
accessibility features.
I go to spoken user interface.
Whoops, no I don't.
Speech recognition commands.
And here there are a number of sets
of commands that can be spoken from
the speakable items application.
Oh, I should turn that on first.
So we go to on off, turn on here.
This brings up speakable items and
there's our old familiar command window.
And let's just zoom in
onto that for a moment.
Woo, there it is.
I like that.
and I don't normally do this,
but I will turn on speak confirmation,
which means it will speak back to
me anything that it hears me say.
What time is it?
It's 11:36.
Okay.
This is speaker independent.
I've not trained this to my voice
other than the normalization
that you just saw me do.
And that all of you will do when you
try this in your hotel rooms tonight,
won't you?
Yes.
All right.
Down here,
turned off by default is front window
commands and menu bar commands.
Both of these use that Accessibility API.
So we'll turn this guy on,
and now I can speak through any front
window commands in any application
that's using real controls.
I'm showing you this because you're
going to keep using real Apple controls,
aren't you?
Default voice.
Spoken user interface.
We have not programmed anything
special into these preferences,
so we can go outside of our preferences.
It will still work.
Show all.
Let's go and do another one.
I'll just pick one at random.
Let's do doc.
Doc.
Magnification.
So there you can see that
speech was developed as a client
for the Accessibility API.
Travis mentioned that it gives
you and us common ground.
We use speech as a client so that
we could make sure the Accessibility
API worked before we gave it to you.
It also means that if you
use standard controls,
you get a lot of accessibility in
your application just for free.
And through the Accessibility API,
you can add even more.
Okay.
I think that's enough for now.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Go back to the slides please.
So yeah, it's pretty cool stuff.
We've got great speech technology
in Mac OS X and it builds on top
of the accessibility APIs to do
some very interesting things.
So let me talk about the last point.
I've got to kind of hustle through it.
Mac OS X has a unique visual pipeline.
We have a compositing windowing system
and also a windowing system that's
very aware of the idea of having to
layer things on top of one another.
And this is sort of
unique in the industry.
I don't want to go into technical
description of how the actual
pixels flow to the frame buffer,
but the key thing is that there's
one process that always knows
what's going on in the frame buffer.
And that process is lowest level
primitive as a concept of a window.
And this means assistive technology
can do some very interesting
things and also solve some
problems for assistive technology.
One thing is that the windowing
system does support Z-ordering,
so it's very possible for
assistive technology applications
to need to be always on top.
To have to do that,
it's just basically a windowing system.
So it's a very possible for
assistive technology applications
to need to be always on top.
To have to do that,
it's just basically a windowing system.
So it's a very possible for
assistive technology applications
to need to be always on top.
To have to do that,
it's just basically a windowing system.
is basically setting in the proper
layer in the z order stack and
then applications can't put their
content on top of a piece of
assistive technology content that
needs to be always on the screen.
And then also the compositing gives all
sorts of opportunities for the visual
presentation of assistive technology
because in many ways there's always
a fight between screen real estate,
between assistive technology,
and the real estate that
the application that's being
adapted assumes that it's using.
So I actually want to show you a really
quick demo of a piece of sample code that
actually sort of shows an interesting
way to maybe solve this problem.
So let me go to, yes, that's right,
the machine.
So we're going to bring an application
that an engineer wrote that's showing
something called an overlay window.
And this was just a simple
application that I had one of
our DTS engineers who works with
Cocoa come up with that's going to
essentially demonstrate a prototype,
if you will,
of what's called a scanning application,
assistive technology,
which is software that usually
works in conjunction with a switch,
that the user will hit the switch,
and basically a palette will pop up,
and then a selection will start
iterating over that palette.
They hit the switch again,
and then they can select an item of maybe
actions that are encoded in that palette.
And the interesting thing is, you know,
this is showing the idea of assistive
technology being able to move out
of the way of applications because
it's able to use Mac OS X's ability
to composite and do transparency
and blending to where this could
easily be made as the user needs it.
It could fade forward and begin its scan,
and then it could fade away when
the user needs to maybe view a web
page or something underneath it.
And also one last point is
this little sample is about $2.
hundred lines of Cocoa code I believe,
if I remember my numbers correctly.
And the interesting thing is that one of
the things that typically people need to
do in scanning applications is support a
large number of tiles or different little
iconic representations of the actions.
And the interesting thing about the
power of Cocoa and Mac OS X is the
fact that I'm able to put a variety
of different file formats into this,
my little scanning application here,
and the system just all displays them
without me having to know anything
as a developer how to decode them.
This will even work for PDF files.
So I could use a, if I was a scanner,
software manufacturer that did
an assistive technology scanner,
I could then use an image tool like
Illustrator or Freehand to create
my high quality artwork which would
then be dynamically scaled down and
have the best possible vector fit for
the piece of assistive technology.
This is a piece of sample code
available up on the DTS website.
So let's go back to the software.
Last slides.
One last point I want to make
is that there's an issue that
is sort of happening right now
between assistive technology and
the propensity for applications
to begin to grab the full screen,
to take over the display.
It's a functionality that we offer in
Mac OS X and a lot of games use it.
And it creates a problem that, let's say,
for example, someone wanted to use an
alternate input device,
which required a piece of
assistive technology software
running in a computer,
to be able to display its content on
top of maybe the game that's running.
That would be difficult
to do if the game said,
the screen is mine.
So here's sort of a recipe or
recommendation if you're a game
developer or you have an application
that does grab the full screen,
how you can use the Z order
capability of Mac OS X's compositing
window model to essentially put
your window at a particular level to
allow assistive technology to work.
It's pretty basic.
Instead of taking over the screen,
you just simply hide the menu bar.
You then hide the dock.
Then what you do is you bring up a
full-sized window without any sort
of borders or controls around it,
and you put it at a particular level,
kind of a screen-soluble level.
Plus one.
And there's another layer that's
above this that essentially
allows assistive technology to
appear above your application.
And this can be like 2D, 3D.
It can be multimedia.
So in theory,
you could have a piece of assistive
technology with a semi-transparent
menu sitting on top of maybe a game,
a 3D game, if it was designed that way.
And the window layers are
defined in CG window level.h,
which is in the Quartz 2D headers.
So in summary, we've basically covered
a lot of ground here.
We've talked a little about accessibility
from the aspect of why you should do it.
We've talked about what technology
Apple's built into the operating
system to accommodate accessibility,
both from a user and
developer perspective.
We've shown you some new APIs that
we've put in Panther to really benefit
assistive technology developers
who need to get at text attributes.
And then additionally,
I've made some recommendations for
both application developers and
assistive technology developers,
how they can better leverage the
technology portfolio on Mac OS X.